The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) says it recorded zero gridlock during the annual Yuletide’s “Operation Zero tolerance” to Road Traffic Crashes in Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The Sector Commander, FCT command, Mr. Oga Ochi, disclosed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Friday in Abuja. Ochi said that areas that frequently experienced gridlock had free flow of traffic. He said that though Operation Zero tolerance to Road Traffic Crashes commenced fully on Dec. 15, 2022, full deployment began from Dec. 20, 2022 and ended on Sunday, Jan. 15, 2023. He said that the Corps never had much challenge in road blockage within the city center as response to Road Traffic Crashes (RTCs) were prompt. “One thing that was cardinal is for us to ensure free flow of traffic and that was successfully achieved. “Unlike the previous years when we had bottled neck around Zuba, Gwagwalada and part of Nyanya, this year it was free flow of traffic. “We started earlier, our deployment was early and we were able to achieve that collaboratively with other sister agencies. We never had any gridlock in any part of the FCT during the period. “I think that is one thing that was achieved as a result of the activities of Operation Zero Tolerance,” he said. Ochi, however, said that the Corps had a slight challenge on a road defect by the interchange of Zuba, saying that the government moved in for the construction in the early days of operation zero Tolerance. He said that the Corps also had a patrol team with two tow trucks and an ambulance that were placed there throughout the period. “The operatives pulled out on Monday, Jan. 16, and I think that helped to reduce the incidences of traffic situations on that route. The FRSC boss said that the Corps recorded 19 crashes altogether between Dec. 20th and Jan. 15. He said: “unfortunately on Sunday, Jan. 15, we had an ugly incident as we are closing the operation Zero Tolerance within the city centre for the first time, we recorded an accident that led to fatality within the city centre. “All other road crashes that led to fatalities happened outside the city centre. We had a case in Abaji, we had another one in Bwari and also around the Yangoji. Four cases were recorded fatal. “On Sunday Jan. 15, We had an incident just by Nicon Junction that led to death of four persons. “So, altogether we lost eight persons, then injuries were quite a number, with a total of six fatal crashes during the period. Ochi said that these achievements followed the collaboration and cooperation that the Corps received from the hospital facilities. He recalled that the Corps had, before the operation, met with all the management of hospitals in the FCT including private hospitals. He said that the hospital managements accepted to work with the Corps to ensure that those involved in road crashes were easily attended to and that was achieved. (NAN)