The widower of allegedly slain lawyer, Mrs. Omobolanle Raheem, on Thursday told a Lagos High Court that the lawyer was shot dead in a car given  to her two days earlier. Gbenga Raheem testified at the trial of ASP Darambi Vandi who allegedly shot and killed the female  lawyer on the last Christmas Day. Gbenga said that the deceased received the  Toyota Venza from a property developer she worked with. He was led in evidence  by the Attorney-General of Lagos State and Commissioner for Justice, Mr. Moyosore Onigbanjo (SAN). According to him, he had  intimacy with the deceased in the morning of the Christmas Day. He added that he surprised her and their  children with gifts on the fateful day. He said that Omobolanle and the children were excited at the gifts and that the entire family members had their breakfasts and went to Church in the new car. He narrated that they went to the World Assembly Church, where they got married  10 years ago. “After the service, we decided to go to Domino’s Pizza, near Ajah Under Bridge, to get pizza for everyone. “On our way back, as I did a U-Turn, I saw police officers ahead. The car in front slowed down, I overtook the car and there was an officer on my left that said I should park. “The officer was following me and giving me signals to park. “All of a sudden, I heard a sound on my wife. The passenger’s window smashed and I saw blood gushing from her chest. “I quickly parked and ran out of the car with my sister-in-law who was sitting behind my wife. “My sister-in-law held the officer, he pointed the gun at her, saying he would shoot her,” the witness said. The witness narrated how he took his wife to a hospital to save her life but did not succeed. After his evidence, Omobolanle’s  sister, Mrs Titilayo Enema, also gave evidence. She said that she saw the defendant carrying a gun, and when she heard a gunshot sound, she thought the defendant hit the car’s windscreen. “Then I heard my sister say, ‘Gbenga, bullet has entered my chest’.  She repeated it, and immediately her neck dropped, her tongue came out, then her eyes closed. “I shouted and ran out of the vehicle. I held the police officer and said, ‘You just shot my sister’. The defendant pointed the gun at me and said he would shoot me. “When I held him because of what he did, I was scared, but later, I saw two boys who said I should hold him. I then became bold. “I dragged him and said he should sit near my sister who he just shot. “I went to Ajiwe Police Station and started shouting that I wanted to see the divisional police officer but they told me he was not around,” she testified. During cross-examination, the witness said  that she saw the defendant carrying a gun. “I know what I saw that day. I know who shot my sister,” she said. Justice Ibironke Harrison adjourned the case until Feb.1 for continuation of trial. (NAN)