Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) says it has registered 92, 490 candidates to sit for the 2023 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME). JAMB said that 67, 328 candidates had so far registered to sit for its mock examination. The board made this known in its Weekly Bulletin from the Office of the Registrar on Monday in Abuja. JAMB commenced registration for the 2023 UTME on January 14 to end Febraury 14. JAMB, while giving a breakdown of its registration fees said that two e-pins were available for purchase, as candidates had the option to either register to sit for its mock UTME or not. “As already effected in the UTME exercise, two e-pins are available, N5, 700 for without mock UTME; N6, 700 for with mock UTME, while the Direct Entry is N4,700. “Approved UTME fee remains N3, 500, reading text N500, the registration fee is N700, with N1000 for Computer Based Test (CBT) examination fee and an optional N1000 for mock examination for the candidates,” it said. The board says it remits to the CBT centres, on a weekly basis what is due to them, adding that the measure is put in place to stop extortion of candidates. It added that as part of measures put in place to enhance sanctity of the examination process, examinations would be allowed to take place an hour after the scheduled commencement time. It promised to reschedule any exam session affected by technical challenges from the board and communicate date for the rescheduled session to the affected candidates. “Candidates will be notified of their new schedule centres before they leave the examination centre. “Furthermore, no candidate will be allowed to spend less than one hour before submission during the examination. “Late commencement or early departure from the examination hall can jeopardise the conduct of the examination by giving some candidates undue advantage over their contemporaries taking the examination,” it said. NAN reports that the board has scheduled registration for Direct Entry (DE) to commence from Feb. 20 to April 20, while the optional mock- UTME will hold on March 16. The board also scheduled to conduct the 2023 UTME on April 29 and end on May 12. (NAN)