The Director-General of the National Council for Arts and Culture(NCAC), Chief Segun Runsewe, says rape must be treated as a pandemic and not mere vice. Runsewe told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)on Thursday in Abuja that it was time the issue of rape was given the needed attention. He said the devastating effect of rape on victims and the society at large was unimaginable. ”It is time for families to break the culture of silence and for the society to desist from stigmatising victims. The director-general also said rather than victimising rape victims, perpetrators should be exposed, shamed and punished for the heinous crime. He said rapists were not fit to leave among people, adding that they posed serious threat to vulnerable people, particularly the girl-child. “Rape is a pandemic, bigger than COVID-19 and rapists should be confined to the zoo because they are animals. “Rape has led to a lot of people that we do not know committing suicide. “It is worrisome how families cover up rape when the trauma victims go through can be better imagined. “It is also worrisome how rape victims are victimised while perpetrators sometimes walk free on the street. “The Inspector-General of Police in 2019, said there were about 748 rape cases. “But I can tell you that for every rape case mentioned, there are 10 other hidden ones,” he said. Runsewe said as part of effort to find practicable solution to the problem, the council wrote a document to create more awareness on the negative effects of rape on the society. On homosexuality, the NCAC boss said the media visibility of those who practiced it had reduced considerably owing to concerted efforts by the council and other stakeholders. “Due to this agency’s approach, the issue of homosexuality has reduced to a large extent. “Before now, if you open weekend newspapers you will see all manner of things but that has reduced drastically. “If we are given more power, we will go after them from state to state and make sure we get rid of such absurd behaviour,” he said. (NAN)